The trunk of the African elephant is an impressive multi-tool.
It is both flexible and strong.
It can pick up a blade of grass or uprooted tree.
Some elephants can use their trunks to feed themselves around 270 kilograms of vegetation
every day. With their trunks they can suck water like a straw, spray like a fountain
and swim with a snorkel. The trunk can give a gentle touch, give a strong push
or sound a warning trumpet.
Engineers at Maya the elephant trunks remarkable flexibility. This comes from having no bone.
Instead, it contains about 150,000 muscle units, an incredible marriage of strength and structure.
Inspired by the elephant's trunk, researchers are designing robots for the future with greater flexibility.
Industrial design often can be made better by copying the perfectly beautiful solutions
in the natural world. What do you think?
Did the elephant's trunk evolve? Or...